Now I do expect you to know some of
the basics of OO you don't have to know Java though some of you
are coming from knowing Java so knowing Java is a positive
in the sense that. Lots of stuff in C++ that so old, looks very much like Java, but
you do have to be careful. Some of the stuff that looks almost
the same has important differences. So you must keep in mind that
when you learn the C++ version even if the syntactic instructions looks
the same, you have to make sure you know what the runtime semantics are for
the C++ construct. Object orientation knowledge
is something I'm expecting. If you're a little rusty there,
read the Wikipedia article. It's a very good article
on the basics of OO, but that's how we intend to
develop our software, one of, one of the key methodologies we
will be using in the C++ community. Okay. Quiz, from what you know
about object orientation, which of these ideas best fit OO? Does OO mean that you're using recursion? Does OO mean data and
operations are bound together? Does OO mean that type safety is critical? Does OO imply that automatic
garbage collection is available? So take a second here,
at this break, and answer this quiz. So, let's discuss the answers. Object orientation is not
about flow of control, but of course your background should
have led to use of recursions. So again, you should be
comfortable with using recursion. The second answer was what
I consider a best answer. An object is a data type and
it's found out with its operations. And think of a data type that
you have in the base language. And it's something like int. And in the base language,
you have operations like + and *. Now in an all language,
like C++, there are things. You just have a certain
set of basic native types. And the crucial thing that makes OO
languages so powerful is, they allow type extensibility that allows you to
program naturally with the new types. So if you think about C++,
there isn't a native type there. But in the standard library,
you can get a complex number type. And the complex number type, once it's included in the language,
once it's built properly. Allows for operations like plus and
times in a natural way. And somebody who works in a community,
such as a physicist or an engineer that uses
complex numbers will just routinely use that complex
number package very effectively. And an OO type could
be a windowing system. So you could have somebody right window,
and then have natural operations on a window. Like making them larger, making them
smaller, putting them in the background, allowing for text mode,
adding in things like menus. So it's a nice way to build software. One of the things in programming
language history are when people tried to have universal languages, what they invariably ran into was
either they make a language so big that it was unmanageable, or
unlearnable, or inefficient or they couldn't track
everything that was useful. So the early attempts to have universal
languages such as PL/I while they were remarkable languages in this systems,
PL/I being invented in the mid 1960s by IBM, were essentially failures,
largely failures. And that then let to object oriented
languages, well actually first data abstraction languages such as MODULA and
Ada were quite successful as well. They share a lot with object orientation,
and these languages let you
have a coherent kernel. So in C++'s case,
that coherent kernel is C. In Simula 67's case,
the coherent kernel was ALGOL 60, and you could be a proficient programmer
in C, you were in the ALGOL 60 case, and then readily extend
the language to a new domain, such as complex that's what
meant by object orientation. Type safety is usually a good property, it's a good property in many
languages including OO languages so it doesn't define them, and the same thing
can be said about garbage collection. It can be built into an object
oriented language, it's very useful. It's also in languages such as Lisp and
Common Lisp and Scheme. But it's not a requirement,
it's not the essential feature of object-orientation which is
really height extensibility.